As I was reading Alfie Kohn's article, I began to think about how grades have affected my learning and my mindset toward classes throughout my academic career. In elementary school, I never checked my grades online (or even knew if that was an option) or stressed over if they were good enough. All that would happen is I would get my report card at the end of each quarter, show my parents, and they would praise me (for A's especially). Instead of making sure my assessments were high, I had the wonderous joy of learning without the fear of failure.
Then, in middle school, scores started to equal higher placement classes (which meant you were smarter), so I began paying more attention to the scores I was receiving. I constantly aimed for A’s and would gladly boast about how many I got. I would save my best graded tests and papers and always display my standardized test scores on the fridge, eager to compare them to my brothers’ rankings. I remember getting my first B in a class and profusely hiding it from my friends anytime they would ask. I felt determined not to let that B soil my straight A reputation and even held a small grudge against the teacher who, rightfully, gave it to me.
Once high school began, my grade obsession was in full swing. Any class that I would receive lower grades in I immediately disliked. I made sure to take several honors and A.P. classes to show that I was smart, even if I didn’t care for the subject. Plus, cheating was always a big topic of discussion at my school, with major stories revolving around the class above mine’s valedictorian, two peers during our honors geometry final, and numerous straight A seniors about to graduate all getting caught. Everyone in those positions talked about cheating more like it was a survival tactic to avoid the major detriment of lower grades than as a dishonorable academic maneuver.
Even through all the negative effects I clearly witnessed surrounding pressure for grades, it didn’t truly hit me until college. I entered GVSU still clinging to the idea that I had to have all A’s and be a top student in each class. It wasn’t until last year that I got my first college B and it finally set in. I got that B and nothing happened. I didn’t get mocked by anyone for not getting an A. I didn’t lose scholarships. I didn’t get kicked out of my program. I survived. While I very much understand how dramatic that sounds, it’s really how I felt. By getting that university level B, I was finally able to see that you don’t need to be the top scoring to succeed. I was able to work on not fearing failure (even if failure is only an 86% instead of a 93%).
With all that said, I really enjoyed reading Kohn's work to see the effect of grades from the teacher’s point of view, identify why I was/am so fixated on grades, and how it has affected my learning.
